## What is The Pie

Let's have a look at a the small example below.

### Setup

There are 2 persons/parties A and B and they would like to share a pie of size 9. Here are the key points

* A could get a pie of size 1 by himself
* B could get a pie of size 2 by himself
* Together they both could get a pie of size 9
* They both know all about this (So, no bluffing or what so ever)

Now, how should they divide? They must negotiate to get something right? Let's say it goes as follows.

**A:** B my friend since, we are both doing it together I believe we should get 50-50.

**B:** Nope, I could get 2 where as you could get 1 instead. So, I should get 6 and you should get 3 (divide it proportional to our capacities)

Both arguments might seem valid/invalid. B's point must look more convincing for most of the people but it's not entirely correct

### The Pie

First, we should understand what is it amount of pie that they are negotiating for. It's not 9 but it's 6 how 6?

So, A could get 1 by his own and B could get 2 by his own. If they don't agree they would be left with 1+2=3

They come together and increase their collective capacity to 9 so, really they are debating for who gets the most of the 6

So, here the pie is 6

### Solution?

Since, the deal isn't possible without A and B both coming together i.e A and B equally have the same power over the 6

The solution is to divide the 6 into half. So, A gets 4 and B gets 5

### Summary

If both groups know what's at stake and what both will gain 

Then the pie would be 

* collective gain - sum(individual gain)
* If both have the  same power the pie would be divided into half